# ParameterizedQueryFx
A .NET based framework for building parameterized T-SQL query text by joining C#-based entity classes.

Welcome to the ParameterizedQuery framework!

This framework helps you create complex SELECT SQL commands that use T-SQL language, by combining entity classes
representing the actual tables of an SQL Server database, using the power of the C# language syntax. The T-SQL script
that is formed from the specified inputs is "parameterized", and hence it avoids the possibility of SQL-injection
attacks.

Here are the main features of the ParameterizedQuery framework:

SELECT clause:
==============
1. You can use DISTINCT keyword in the SELECT clause by calling the ".Distinct ()" method of the framework.
2. You can specify NULL as a column in the SELECT clause, if you need to, by using ".NullAsColumn" static property
    of the "Null" static class.
3. You can use the value of a "local variables" to represent a column in the SELECT clause. The resulting query would
    use an SQL parameter to represent the value.

FROM clause:
============
1. The FROM clause would support only one entity as the FROM table of the query. However, you can specify up to
    14 more entities to participate in the T-SQL query. You must specify an "alias" for each entity.
2. You can specify the same entity more than once if required, however, the "alias" must be different in the
    subsequent appearances.
3. You can link multiple entities using INNER, LEFT, RIGHT, and FULL OUTER joins.
4. In a JOIN clause, you just need to mention the property of the entity that acts as the "foreign key". The primary
    key column of the other table entity would be automatically be ascertained via reflection.

WHERE clause:
=============
1. You can use C# syntax to specify the WHERE clause conditions. The conditions can be nested to any extent, as
    supported by the C# syntax. You can use "&&" or "||" logical operators to represent "and" and "or" operators.
2. You can use " is Null" to add a WHERE clause condition that a particular column is expected to be NULL.
3. You can use " is NotNull" to add a WHERE clause condition that a particular column is expected to be NOT NULL.
4. You can use ".StartsWith ()" and ".EndsWith ()" calls on "string" type entity properties.
5. You can use the ".In ()" extension method on "Object", to specify an " in ( ... ) " WHERE clause condition.
6. You can use the ".NotIn ()" extension method on "Object", to specify an " not in ( ... ) " WHERE clause condition.
7. You can use "==", "!=", ">", ">=", "<", "<=", etc. used in C# syntax to represent respective operators.

A very important feature of this framework:
===========================================
If a property's value is same as its default value (for example, a string property has a NULL value), then
a WHERE condition based on that property WILL NOT appear in the constructed WHERE clause, even though the
C# WHERE clause has a condition based on that property. For example, imagine the ".FirstName" property of
the specified entity points to a NULL, then a C# condition " && p.FirstName != 'Jack' " would result in a
corresponding T-SQL WHERE condition NOT present in the generated query, instead of generating a condition
like " and p.first_name = NULL ".

Check the "Tester" for a C# sample that represents a parameterized query. Run the project to see sample T-SQL script that
is generated by the Parameterized Query Framework.

Known limitations of this framework:
====================================
1. The framework cannot generate T-SQL statements that contain aggregate functions (such as, count (*), max (amount), etc.)
2. The framework does not support embedded SQL statements such as " exists (select ...) ".
3. The framework does not support CASE WHEN THEN construct supported by T-SQL.

I would appreciate, if you could let me know your observations on the bugs / additional features that can be added to the framework.
